During the plasmid miniprep we are going to
grow cultures ofE.colicells, lyse them,
and isolate plasmid DNA.
Plasmid miniprep protocol:
* Prepare numbered cell culture tubes with
4 ml of liquid LB medium and appropriate antibiotic
* Pick colonies from a plate and inoculate
media in the numbered tubes
* Incubate the culture tubes in a shaker at
37oC overnight
* On the next day, save 1 ml of culture in
a separate Eppendorf tube (for clone library)
* Spin down the remaining 3 ml of culture
and proceed with plasmid miniprep kit
The only task for Day 2 is to start the miniprep
cultures. Here I prepared three cell culture
tubes with 4 ml of liquid LB medium with ampicillin
in each of them.
Right now I am going to inoculate the colonies
from the plates into the tubes. I open tube
one, pick a colony with a pipette tip
and inoculate it into the tube. I repeat the
same procedure for the other two tubes.
The culture tubes are incubated overnight
in a 37oC shaker.
We are now on the Day 3 of our cloning protocol.
Right here on the bench I have the overnight
cultures ofE.coliwhich I am going to use
for plasmid miniprep.
But first, I am going to take 1 ml out of
each of these culture tubes and save it in
a separate Eppendorf tube. Later today, after
I verify the clones by restriction digest,
I will freeze these cultures in my Frozen
Clone Collection.
Now I am going to proceed with a plasmid miniprep
kit to isolate DNA from these cultures. If
you used the plasmid miniprep kits before,
fast forward to the next step.
First, I pellet the cells by spinning the
culture tubes in a centrifuge.
Here I have the pelleted cultures and now
I am going to use standard miniprep kit (in
this case it is an AccuPrep Plasmid MiniPrep
kit from Bioneer), which consists of several
buffers and columns, to isolate the plasmids.
I start by discarding the supernatant from
each of the tubes. Then I add 250 µl of a
resuspension buffer. Then I resuspend the
pelleted cells and transfer to new Eppendorf
tubes.
Now I am going to add 250 µl of a lysis buffer
and mix the solution by gently flipping over
the tubes.
Then I add 350 µl of neutralization buffer
to each of the tubes
and again mix the solutions by gently flipping
over the tubes.
You can see that there is a cottage cheese-like
formation in the tubes, which we are going
to separate by spinning the tube for 10 minutes
in
a microcentrifuge.
Then I transfer the supernatants to spin columns,
spin 1 minute in a centrifuge, discard the
flow through and add a wash buffer with ethanol.
I spin it for 1 minute in a centrifuge again,
discard the ethanol, and spin one more time.